Hello my name is Arun.
I'm a Senior Technical
Product Manager and I want
to talk with you about
Amazon Comprehend Medical.
So what is Amazon
Comprehend Medical?
Comprehend Medical is a
set of hyper-eligible ML
powered APIs built specifically
for the healthcare domain.
It makes it easy to
extract and structure
information from
unstructured medical text.
It does this with state
of the art accuracy,
helping developers
build applications
that can improve
patient outcomes.
Comprehend Medical makes
advanced medical text analytics
accessible to all developers
with no upfront costs.
What problems exist that
Comprehend Medical can solve?
More than 90 percent of
healthcare providers use
electronic health records
to store a patient data.
Although there are few
structured fields in an EHR,
most of the valuable
patient-care information is
trapped in a free
form clinical text.
An example being admission notes,
patient history, or
discharge notes.
However, extracting value
define insights from
unstructured clinical notes is
a manual and
labor-intensive process,
creating a bottleneck
that slows down analysis
that could result in better
health and business outcomes.
You might be asking, how does
Comprehend Medical actually work?
Well, it is an extension
of Amazon comprehends
natural language
processing models
for entity extraction
of medical texts.
It uses deep learning to
extract entities from
unstructured text in
the healthcare field
such as clinical notes
and radiology readings.
Amazon comprehend leverages the
latest advancements in
machine learning to
bring a high level
of accuracy and
efficiency to extracting
clinical information.
Comprehend Medical
consists of two APIs.
The NERA API, which will
return a JSON with all
the extracted entities,
their traits, and the
relationships between them.
The second API is the
PHId API which will
return just the protected
health information
contained in the text.
Developers can easily integrate
Comprehend Medical into
their data processing pipelines
with tools like Amazon glue.
They can also access it
from SageMaker and extract
structured data to build
accurate models for
health care use cases.
Once the text is extracted,
it can be stored in
services like S3,
Aurora, RDS, and Redshift
or any third party service.
What does this mean for you?
Comprehend Medical can
help improve outcomes.
Identifying a high-risk
patient on time will prevent
further complications
for the patient and
reduce the financial costs
for the health system.
This data is also valuable for
use cases such as clinical
decision support,
revenue cycle management and
clinical trial management
and it's difficult to use
without significant
manual effort.
The ability to
extract and structure
information from unstructured
medical text with
state of the art accuracy
no longer requires
you to be a medical or
machine-learning expert.
Comprehend medical makes
advanced medical text analytics
accessible to all developers
with no upfront costs.
Comprehend Medical's current
performance has been
better than what we have
seen in academic benchmarks.
Well, how about we take a look
at Comprehend Medical right in
the console so you can get
an even better idea
about how it works?
So let's take a look
at Amazon Comprehend
medical's console.
Here we have a de-identified
clinical node,
I'm going to run it
through the service.
So here what we return is
the actual insights from
this analyzed text.
You can see that the color is
specific to a different
entity type that we extract.
Here the orange is
basically for PHI, Protected
Health Information.
Here green is for
medical condition and
we actually have
something called entity
traits that, one is negation.
So if for example,
a patient denies taking
some medication,
that medication would be negated.
Then we show whether a
diagnosis is a sign or symptom.
Why that's important is that
when you work downstream,
it's very important to have
that differentiation
in order to fit
into a lot of workflows that
exist with our health
care customers.
What we also do with
relationship extraction is
we tie the subtypes
to the parents.
So for example here,
the test name is platelet count
and the actual value is
varied significantly.
So you here you can see through
the UI that it is
connected to the parent.
What we've done with this is,
we want to make it really easy
for customers to sift and
sort through this
data not through
simple searches but
more complex ones.
So you can actually search,
for example, medication also
has relationship extraction.
You can search dosages
for medication.
So what we do is, we
tie the medication to
the dosage route or mode,
the strength frequency,
and so you can make
simple searches
about how many of my patients are
taking a certain dosage
of a certain medication.
In the end, we want to
make this easy to use.
We're really trying to distill
a complex process into
a very simple API call.
Moving further, you can
see another example of
relationship
extraction here under
Vital Signs is temperature.
So temperature is the test name
and the value is 36 and
it's connected to it.
So it's very easy for
our customers or for you
to visually look at this
and see how well our ML
powered models are working.
Moving further down
in the console,
you can see like we actually
have a list type or we list
all the entities and
you can actually see
the category and if any
traits are associated.
We also provide the
conference score
so you can see how well
our models are performing on
the unstructured data that
you're running
through the service.
You can also sift and sort
through this data
as you deem fit.
So essentially, if I
wanted to look for
example at test treatment
and procedures,
you can actually see the
platelet count and under it,
what the relationship was with
the subtype and we provide
that here as well.
You can also close it.
So again, we're trying to make
this very easy to use and
very easy for our
customers to sift through.
Honestly, very dense data very,
very difficult to structure data.
These will make it for you,
the better you can
use the service and
obviously scale it for
your specific use cases.
Moving on to the JSON output,
you can see here again,
we make it as easy as
possible and some of
the identifiers that
we have are ID,
the offset like where it's
located in the clinical texts,
the actual score, the text
and the category as I showed
earlier, and the subtypes.
So here the type for
Labahn Hospital,
it's under PHI,
protected health information
and the type is address.
If you move further down you
can see where we actually
nest in the subtypes
when we talk about
relationship extraction.
So now going back to the
example of platelet count,
you can see that
that is a test name.
It's under the category of
test treatment procedure
and the actual value below
it is varied significantly.
So again, when you
take this data out
of Comprehend Medical and
put it into any database,
it could be dynamo,
it could be redshift.
We want to make it
very easy for you to
search through it,
and we believe that this
format allows you to do that.
With that, that's pretty
much what the service does.
We've really tried to take
a very complex process
and make it easy
for our customers.
We believe that if
we can if we can
do a lot of the heavy
lifting and the hard work,
we can actually enhance
our customers to build
all the really cool applications
that can really change
and impact healthcare.
Thanks for learning about
Amazon Comprehend Medical.
On behalf of AWS,
thanks for watching.